Add offline fallback page article (#3862)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/progressive-web-apps/offline-fallback-page/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Create a simple offline experience
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2020-09-11
# updated: 2020-09-11
description: Learn how to add an offline fallback page to your app.
tags:
  - progressive-web-apps
---

> What do the Google Assistant app, the Slack app, the Zoom app, the Apple Podcasts app, and almost any other native app on your phone or computer have in common? Right, they never give you nothing. Even when you do not have a network connection, you can still open the Assistant app, or enter Slack, or launch Zoom, or run Podcasts. You might not get anything particularly meaningful or even be unable to achieve what you wanted to achieve, but at least you get *something* and the app is in control.

Reviewer: >they never give you nothing

Please find a different way to say this. In some dialects of American English this means "they never give you anything." My immediate gut reaction to this sentence is that it was the worst grammar mistake I had ever seen from your writing, even though it's not.

Author: Just a quick comment on that one: it’s the negated form of saying “they always (negated never) give you something (nothing)”. 

It’s inspired by [John Grisham](https://www.amazon.com/Firm-John-Grisham/dp/0385416342): “You never get nothing for nothing”.

---
layout: post

> title: Create a simple offline experience

Author: ```suggestion
title: Create a an offline fallback page
```

authors:
  - thomassteiner

> date: 2020-09-14

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2020-09-24
```

# updated: 2020-09-14

> description: Learn how to add an offline fallback page to your app.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to create a simple offline experience for your app.
```

---
layout: post
title: Create a simple offline experience
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2020-09-14
# updated: 2020-09-14
description: Learn how to add an offline fallback page to your app.
tags:
  - progressive-web-apps
---

What do the Google Assistant app, the Slack app, the Zoom app, the Apple Podcasts app, and almost

> any other native app on your phone or computer have in common? Right, they never give you nothing.

Author: ```suggestion
any other native app on your phone or computer have in common? Right, they always at least give you *something*.
```

Even when you do not have a network connection, you can still open the Assistant app, or enter
Slack, or launch Zoom, or run Podcasts. You might not get anything particularly meaningful or even
be unable to achieve what you wanted to achieve, but at least you get _something_ and the app is in
control.

<figure class="w-figure" role="group" aria-labelledby="fig-apps-wrapper">

  <figure class="w-figure" role="group" aria-labelledby="fig-assistant" style="display: inline-block">
    <img src="assistant.jpg" alt="Google Assistant mobile app while offline." width="200">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption" id="fig-assistant">
      Google Assistant.
    </figcaption>

>   </figure>

Author: Removed the second row image for each group.

your app has loaded.

```js
window.addEventListener("load", () => {
  if ("serviceWorker" in navigator) {
    navigator.serviceWorker.register("service-worker.js");
  }
});
```

### The service worker code

The contents of the actual service worker file may seem a little involved at first sight, but the
comments in the sample below should clear things up. The core idea is to pre-cache a file named
`offline.html` that gets only served on _failing_ navigation requests, and to let the browser handle
all other cases:

```js
/*
Copyright 2015, 2019, 2020 Google LLC. All Rights Reserved.
 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 You may obtain a copy of the License at
 http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.

> */

Author: This builds upon an earlier sample indeed: https://googlechrome.github.io/samples/service-worker/custom-offline-page/.

          if (preloadResponse) {
            return preloadResponse;
          }

          // Always try the network first.
          const networkResponse = await fetch(event.request);
          return networkResponse;
        } catch (error) {
          // catch is only triggered if an exception is thrown, which is likely
          // due to a network error.
          // If fetch() returns a valid HTTP response with a response code in
          // the 4xx or 5xx range, the catch() will NOT be called.
          console.log("Fetch failed; returning offline page instead.", error);

          const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
          const cachedResponse = await cache.match(OFFLINE_URL);
          return cachedResponse;
        }
      })()
    );
  }

  // If our if() condition is false, then this fetch handler won't intercept the
  // request. If there are any other fetch handlers registered, they will get a
  // chance to call event.respondWith(). If no fetch handlers call
  // event.respondWith(), the request will be handled by the browser as if there
  // were no service worker involvement.
});
```

### The offline fallback page

> The `offline.html` file is where you can get creative and adopt it to your needs and add your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `offline.html` file is where you can get creative and adapt it to your needs and add your
```

branding. The example below shows the bare minimum of what is possible.

> {% Aside 'gotchas' %} Note that you need to cache all resources required by your offline page. One

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside 'gotchas' %} You need to cache all resources required by your offline page. One
```

way to deal with this is to inline everything, so the offline page is self-contained. This is what I
do in the example below. {% endAside %}

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>You are offline</title>

    <!-- inline the webpage's stylesheet -->
    <style>
      body {
        font-family: helvetica, arial, sans-serif;
        margin: 2em;
      }

      h1 {
        font-style: italic;
        color: #373fff;
      }

      p {
        margin-block: 1rem;
      }

      button {
        display: block;
      }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>You are offline</h1>

    <p>Click the button below to try reloading.</p>
    <button type="button">⤾ Reload</button>

    <!-- inline the webpage's javascript file -->
    <script>
      document.querySelector("button").addEventListener("click", () => {
        window.location.reload();
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

## Demo

You can see the offline fallback page in action in the

> [demo](https://offline-fallback-demo.glitch.me/index.html) that is also embedded below. If you are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[demo](https://offline-fallback-demo.glitch.me/index.html) embedded below. If you are
```

interested, you can explore the [source code](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/offline-fallback-demo) on
Glitch.

<div class="glitch-embed-wrap" style="height: 420px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://glitch.com/embed/#!/embed/offline-fallback-demo?path=offline.html&previewSize=100"
    title="offline-fallback-demo on Glitch"
    allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; encrypted-media"
    style="height: 100%; width: 100%; border: 0;">
  </iframe>
</div>

### Side note on making your app installable

> Now that your site has an offline fallback page, you might wonder about next steps. In order to make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your site has an offline fallback page, you might wonder about next steps. To make
```

your app installable, you need to add a [Web App Manifest](/add-manifest/) and optionally come up
with an [install strategy](/define-install-strategy/).

### Side note on serving an offline fallback page with Workbox.js

> You may have heard of [Workbox.js](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox) in the past.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may have heard of [Workbox.js](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox).
```

Workbox.js is a set of JavaScript libraries for adding offline support to web apps. If you prefer to
write less service worker code yourself, you can use the Workbox.js recipe for an

> [offline page only](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/guides/advanced-recipes#offline_page_only).

Reviewer: This ends abruptly. Do you plan to eventually add links between articles in this series? 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8204171/93778018-48244400-fbda-11ea-93af-05c37d4b107c.png)

Author: These "series" articles end kind of abruptly indeed, and right now the navigation isn't really straightforward. There is an "appears in: $seriesName" at the beginning…

<img width="692" alt="Screen Shot 2020-09-21 at 16 47 29" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/145676/93781960-43877c00-fc2a-11ea-91df-7f11e3927cc9.png">

…but I think there should be a link to the next article in the series in the footer. Feedback for the web.dev core team.

Author: Let me add a pointer manually for now.
